in this video session number one static
CMOS circuit design dynamic CMOS circuit
design and number three
Euler's rule for physical design so we
will start from static CMOS circuit
design so let's have a problem that is y
is equal to a B plus C D plus E whole
bar for designing the static CMOS
circuit design here is the equation for
which we are going to apply the static
CMOS design okay so we will start sub
separately I may each time a new T that
is to rule with the P Mo's or and mass
Kelly for P Mo's and n Mo's Primus key
case may be multiplied hoga or + and
multiplied and his plus 4 n Mo's
burski case mayhem look parallel singing
and multiply he kiss me we'll go with
series we mostly utility that is
opposite and it will be dot for parallel
and plus for series okay this thing the
you can remember is it like for and moss
be 4 plus same as P for parallel and odd
for series and P Mo's will be opposite
to the and moss okay so here it is like
for static CMOS circuit design a and B
are in parallel sorry in multiplication
so we will design like to two things v
TD and the second line is that is ground
so so very Hedo lines truck and VDD and
ground so forth
we will first drop what and Moscow
equation is a B plus C D plus e so here
it is a B that is a into B into B means
for an mas it is in series so we will
take a more circuit this a in
multiplication it will go with series so
here it is B okay so now a B a B for an
mas it is in series now addition there
is in parallel so C and this whole
section this whole section will be in
parallel so we will start from here C
that is here it is C and now it is again
multiplication that is C and T plus a
are n series so C and D plus C's are in
series but D plus E are getting added so
it will three will be in parallel
this this and this here it is d and here
it is e now connect all these like this
and take it round so this section is for
and Moss okay now we will draw for
promotion you start it from here but we
must a dot B a dot B are in parallel so
they will go like this this is a and it
is P to P Mo's so now it is getting
added with C's added means again in
parallel so they are multi prime in
parallel not adding sorry for addition
it is in series so in addition again
like this and now CC is in
multiplication and T plus C so C will be
in C will be in parallel for P Mo's like
this C and D plus C that is ready and
they are getting added so will be taken
in series so it will be like B and it is
e here it is T and here it is with
purple because it is Primos now we will
connect like this this circuit is for P
MOS it is the point from here we will
output Y here we have the whole static
CMOS circuit for this given equation now
for we will discuss dynamic for dynamic
section we will clear assume the P Mo's
as X this whole circuit is taken as X
and n MOS the whole circuits taken is Z
so dynamic with it go with dynamic CMOS
circuit design so what is the difference
first of all what is the difference
between static and dynamic in static we
do not have a clock but in dynamic we
have a clock signal so we have to do
nothing just like same the problem was y
is equal to a B plus C into D plus E and
whole bar so here it is VDD and again at
this point we be to Co with ground now
the same we had working with dynamic so
we will have to pay clock signals also
so for Primos we will take a pea most
hill and for n we will take and signal
hill this both a short and a clock
signal is given it is five o'clock
signal
okay now the whole that whole section I
can static fit drawn here this section
for P must be taken as X so home loan
only half 3 is root over X and here it
is said and this is for Y output exams
may appear a circuit drawn of Anna marks
so finally we have the dynamic this
whole section is dynamic
CMOS circuit for this particular problem
now we will go with third section that
is EU l euler's rule for physic curl
circuit design sorry physical design now
for Euler's drew the first contra with
static CMOS circuit now you know helium
calculate and this is the beauty things
we will start with this X at this point
okay you point at this point as you can
see we will draw a point that is VDD
and look I can engage her node this is
node 1 this is node 2 this is node 3 to
node is 3 this is 4 this is 5 and this
node is 6
okay now GMI repeatediy at node 1
we party there is this is for B it is
like B now for C we will go like this
because he is going through this now D
and E D and E so tasty and for e it is D
and it is e this is the node a this is
no sorry 1 2 it is 3 they treated it is
for just notice for it is and sorry P
Mo's we will draw another one that is
this is the node 3 and it is going
through like this a it is a it is B B's
like this now here it is C so C it is
like this C and T and E is B here it is
P and here it is e it is T it is
connected like this and this one is
grounded so he diagrams penology hum a
shortest distance is section C means
hello Jason has a start when I do this
part is to this
sorry part one part this is up to decide
decide connect this part is code is
kappahd same day like Laguna is point
three start here on Expedia sect and si
from a b d e and z and remember it but
doable repeat energy
so I'm gonna start here from a humbug it
is a b b c d e and then is AC up see
McGehee Fatima is what it is and must be
try can I keep at a spiritual dragon so
I'm gonna get up from a A to B B to B D
to E and E to C so as you can see you
look DC e Petaling so busy if it area or
ski bottom Ecbatana that is e CC Tommy
he could appear can apply so on Luke is
a part Canadian hemlock chilling gear
I'm luminescent app definitely has to
start again dd p starting at be reading
a low BP be say a this is C and C severe
a so I see a key but C and C severe e
now only but spent like like HL taking
so it is very 3d this point D be a see
and here it is e so you can see John
Logan
yeah well apart is faith imply grant to
go be part repeat me alright so this is
the right I love spot okay now in part
skill a Soviet man
the problem was Y is equals to B plus C
into D plus B okay so and the path we
decided is D be AC and E now the same
thing as we join a static and dynamic
that is VD D and here it is ground now
we are drawing the stick diagram very
same so here it is for P Mo's and it is
for and moss okay now this is the path
so we will go like this it is d be a C
and E now we have to draw the stick
diagram for this section okay
let's again take the statics circuit as
you can see here it is source of the p
MOS a drain source drain source drain it
is again source drain source drain now
for n MOS it is drain drain source drain
source source drain drain source and so
okay we're trying for a P MOSFET is this
section so we will see the transistor D
so for transistor D so we have s and T
so we have to see D and P transistor
that is this this transistor T and B as
you can see the D and s
our same Junction so we will take the
train I can see drain of the be that is
train of the B is connected with the
souls of the T so here it is now it is
the train and it is the source this is a
and B a and B the source sources of the
a and B are on same side so it is source
and it is train now a and C as you can
say a and C train of a and source of T
see sorry
so drain of a source of C okay now C and
E C drain of C and source of the sorry
train of e so train of C and drain of ER
in on seems it is source here it is now
we will do the short circuits further
for these junctions it is as you can see
here it is the a and B are short a and B
sorry for a source this point is
connected with VDD as you can see the
source of a and source of B not given
with which it is so source of a and
source of B are given with VDD now a and
B the Train of a and drain of B are
short so drain of a and drain Jordan of
P and drain of a are short now again you
can see the source of D the source of D
and source of C source of this source of
C source of D and so soft C are also
short circuit so this Junction is
completed here after that we will move
to this junction D and E we will see D
and E here it is d it is e so the drain
of Dean there is this point drain of D
and source of e there is source of e
these are again
well shorted now again this point C and
E C and E drain these are already
shorted okay now we will take the output
this is from this point drain of C and
drain of e that is strain of citrine of
e this section we will do it like this
and here it is y now we will draw for
work further and moss so I move and Moss
we are seeing this circuit now similarly
this is the drain this is a drain of a
and C will go with a and C the train and
drain of a and C are common so a the
drain the drain of a and C okay so here
it is so series source now we will move
with this train of source of a will go
with this side so D and E B and E now so
we will work with DB these two are
together so d the source of D is
connected with source of e B and D P and
D so yes source of B is connected with
source of be the source of this
connected resource of B so here it is
train in strain now C and E C and E the
source of C is connected with train of a
source of C is connected with drain of e
so here it is T and here it is s now
again the short circuits first of all we
will take the output there is a train of
a and drain of see a train of a and
train of see here
taken as the output is taken from this
point okay now again from ground to
ground there is D and E the sources of D
and E the source of T source of B D and
E source of D P - to ground source of
this here it is also ground okay now
this point B and a a and B are short C
and D C and T these I have to win these
are apart so these are also have to be
shorted so the drain of C that is drain
of see this section and train of a that
is drain off here it is don't know if if
these are also short okay so I see a CR
together C and D are far C and D so
drain source of C and drain off the
drain of D yeah you can see it is also
connected D is connected with E the
drain of C D and this is also shorter
yeah okay so it is the stick diagram
rule root cooperating so add up this
actor EMI pass a complicated equation ax
with a b c d e with v transistors okay
so for trying state diagram for this
equation I'm directing now acceptance so
kinky
how do direct questions now section you
see Y is equals to a dot B is Cillian
looks T diagram directness extended the
main except to be realistic diagram
magneto hum normally pin a sector but
transition start over that is variable
shadow that tend to stick diagram bring
Euler's rule car use of 10 you will use
this rule for physical design so that's
four that's all for today thank you very
much